[TT-15086] Release Notes: Sync 2.1.3 (#6776)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart.md

## Support Lifetime
Our minor releases are supported until our next minor comes out. 

---
## 3.1 Release Notes

### 3.1.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date XX August 2025

#### Release Highlights

...

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v3.1.0) below.

#### Breaking Changes

This release has no breaking changes.

#### Dependencies {#dependencies-3.1}

##### 3rd Party Dependencies & Tools
| Third Party Dependency  | Tested Versions  | Compatible Versions  | Comments | 
| ------------------------| ---------------- | -------------------- | -------- | 
| [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io)   | 1.26.x, 1.27.x, 1.28.x, 1.29.x, 1.30.x, 1.31.x, 1.32.x | 1.19+ | | 
| [Helm](https://helm.sh)               | 3.14.x              | 3.x  | | 

> | [Redis](https://redis.io/download/)   | 6.2.x, 7.x, 7.4.x   | 6.2.x, 7.x, 7.4.x | |

Reviewer: @andyo-tyk  For Redis, if we have `7.x`, what is the need for `7.4.x`? Doesn't `7.x` cover everything?

## Support Lifetime
Our minor releases are supported until our next minor comes out. 

---
## 3.1 Release Notes

### 3.1.0 Release Notes

> #### Release Date XX August 2025

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Release Date 6th August 2025
```

- [ArtifactHub - tyk-stack](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-stack/3.1.0)
- [ArtifactHub - tyk-control-plane](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-control-plane/3.1.0)
- [ArtifactHub - tyk-data-plane](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-data-plane/3.1.0)
- [ArtifactHub - tyk-oss](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-oss/3.1.0)

#### Changelog {#Changelog-v3.1.0}

##### Added

<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Add Redis Sentinel Global Config Handler for Dashboard and MDCB Charts</summary>

Added Helm Chart support for Redis Sentinel configurations using global values for both the Tyk Dashboard and MDCB charts to match the existing support in Tyk Gateway and Pump charts.
</details>
</li>
</ul>

##### Changed

<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Updated default versions of Tyk components</summary>

Tyk Charts 3.1 will install the following Tyk components:

- Tyk Gateway v5.8.3
- Tyk Dashboard v5.8.3
- Tyk Pump v1.12.0
- Tyk MDCB v2.8.2
- Tyk Developer Portal v1.14.0
- Tyk Operator v1.2.0
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Tyk Pump Helm Chart: GraphQL Pump disabled by default</summary>

> The GraphQL Pump (mongo-graph pump) in the Tyk Pump Helm Chart is no longer enabled by default for both MongoDB and PostgreSQL backends. This change provides users with explicit control to enable the pump via Helm values (e.g., `pump.mongoGraph.enabled`), addressing concerns about rapid storage increase. Users currently relying on the GraphQL Pump will need to enable it explicitly after this update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Tyk Pump Helm Chart has been updated to disable the GraphQL Pump configuration by default for both MongoDB and PostgreSQL backends. This change provides users with explicit control to enable the pump via Helm values (e.g., `pump.mongoGraph.enabled`), addressing concerns about rapid storage increase. Users currently relying on the GraphQL Pump will need to enable it explicitly after this update.
```

<ul>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Fixed Helm Charts bootstrap failure</summary>

Resolved an issue where the Helm Charts bootstrap post-install job for tyk-stack failed due to an unnecessary requirement for an operator license, even when the operator was disabled by default. The bootstrap process now completes successfully without requiring the operator license.
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Incorrect fsGroup Placement in Tyk Helm Chart</summary>

Corrected the placement of the `fsGroup` field in the `tyk-stack` chart's `values.yaml` from `containerSecurityContext` to `podSecurityContext` to resolve pre-install job failures.
</details>
</li>
<li>
<details>
<summary>Fixed Redis Sentinel Password Configuration in Helm Charts</summary>

Resolved an issue where the Redis Sentinel password ([TYK_GW_STORAGE_SENTINELPASSWORD]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#storagesentinel_password" >}})) was not correctly picked up by Helm charts. Previously, both Redis and Sentinel passwords referenced the same secret key, leading to the Sentinel password defaulting to the regular Redis password. This fix ensures correct handling of distinct Sentinel passwords.
</details>
</li>
</ul>

> <!-- ##### Security Fixes
> This section should be a bullet point list that should be included when any security fixes have been made in the release, e.g. CVEs. For CVE fixes, consideration needs to be made as follows:
> 1. Dependency-tracked CVEs - External-tracked CVEs should be included on the release note.
> 2. Internal scanned CVEs - Refer to the relevant engineering and delivery policy.
> 
> For agreed CVE security fixes, provide a link to the corresponding entry on the NIST website. For example:
> 
> - Fixed the following CVEs:
>     - [CVE-2022-33082](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-33082)
> -->
> 
> <!-- Required. use 3 hyphens --- between release notes of every patch (minors will be on a separate page) -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
